== Dorian Taylor: On Noodletext: (m) ==

Let’s imagine a story, idea or argument as a concept map, where the bubbles are
concepts and the lines between them are some form of analogy. We can call this a
representation of a conceptual topology. 

If you’ve ever done one of these exercises, you’ll notice it doesn’t take long
before you lose track of the bubbles and the lines start to crisscross.
Hypertext was explicitly conceived as a way to manage the complexity of such a
structure.

...Hypertext enables complex conceptual structures to be explicit—baked into the
artifact, rather than emerging through reading. 
-- [[no longer no sense of an ending]]

= Federated Wiki =
Ward's project has some very pretty visualization approaches, both in design and
in function. I also dig the philosophy behind the Federated Wiki, and I'd like
to make a contribution if I can. 
https://github.com/WardCunningham/Smallest-Federated-Wiki

= Ergodic Text =
http://www.articleworld.org/index.php/Ergodic_literature
http://grandtextauto.org/2005/08/12/clarifying-ergodic-and-cybertext/

An ergodic text requires more work than just linearly reading along. Hyperlinks,
looking in glossaries, checking tables and graphs and charts and looking at
artwork... what, does this sound familiar, Tom? 

= Cybertext =

Cybertext, the book:
http://books.google.com/books?id=qx_-zj0-TwoC&pg=PA62&lpg=PA62&dq=textons+and+scriptons&source=bl&ots=u18NO8qZD4&sig=zMnN9xbikFwYhIC9XTN1imd7RyE&hl=en&sa=X&ei=g24IULy6M8f9qwG9-pzvBA&ved=0CFkQ6AEwBg#v=onepage&q=textons%20and%20scriptons&f=false

A cybertext requires that some sort of computation happens when reading is
occurring. This means a cybertext may or may not be ergodic -- imagine Robin
Sloan's stacks, with the result of YOUR click being autogenerated.

[[Sloanstacks]]

No seriously, imagine that. Imagine Robin SLoan's stacks, with the textons
permuted algorithmically (even if randomly). An opportunity to connect directly
with a person's data. So what data would they give to us in exchange for ours?
Remember that part of the data is in the instinct of the actors.>>

That would mean a good time estimate, and compelling content every 15 seconds.
Excellent, I can work on that level of detail. 

== Examples == 
e2 is a cybertext. It makes suggestions to the reader, based on a simple
ant-trail model. 

However, it is a failure. It doesn't track the relevance, just the initial
signal, which is kind of useless because it's counting you looking to see; such
a counter would just measure dedication to breadth-first search. But what seemed
to matter to Noders was the community, as with so many internet projects in
their post-Winter. 


