== No Longer No Sense of an Ending ==

by Dorian Taylor

...Let’s imagine a story, idea or argument as a concept map, where the bubbles are
concepts and the lines between them are some form of analogy. We can call this a
representation of a conceptual topology. If you’ve ever done one of these
exercises, you’ll notice it doesn’t take long before you lose track of the
bubbles and the lines start to crisscross. Hypertext was explicitly conceived as
a way to manage the complexity of such a structure.

I’m tempted to claim that hypertext empowers us to represent more complex
conceptual topologies than older literary technologies, but I’m not completely
convinced of that myself: consider the subtlety, nuance, and explosive range of
interpretation embedded in your favourite poem. It’s more accurate to say that
hypertext enables complex conceptual structures to be explicit—baked into the
artifact, rather than emerging through reading. A print-era analogue to this
concept is that while you can debate up and down what an author meant by this or
that word in the text, it’s a lot harder to argue whether or not chapter seven
comes after chapter six. The links in hypertext, likewise, connect any part of a
work to any other as clearly and unambiguously as adjacent chapters.

Following a hypertext link is an ergodic process—in this case, an interaction
with a text which is over and above the everyday act of reading. To examine a
text’s ergodicity, Årseth introduces two units: the texton and the scripton. A
texton is an arbitrarily-sized segment of static text, and a scripton is a
permutation of a (sub)set of textons. For example, each word of a fridge magnet
poetry set is a texton which can be arranged to create millions of viable
scriptons. In contrast, the entirety of Moby Dick, being a contiguous story, is
both one texton and one scripton.

A texton has a definite orientation—i.e., beginning, middle, and end—but a
scripton can have as many orientations as the factorial of its component
textons—a potentially enormous number, though likely made smaller if we remove
the permutations that don’t make any sense. The remaining scriptons may or may
not vary the meaning of the overall work, but they will almost certainly vary
the reader’s experience. And that is what’s so fascinating about hypertext.

We should, as Årseth does in his dissertation, be able to evaluate a
(hyper)textual œuvre in terms of three things:

* textons,
* the scriptons their arrangements produce, and
* the alternate interpretations we can derive from the results.

Using text with a high ratio of scriptons to textons, but low variation in
meaning, we can notify, instruct or persuade readers without demanding they
invest more effort than it takes to get the point across, while leaving an
avenue open for further exploration. At the same time, as an author, you can
remain confident that what they’re reading is what you wrote. 

== Comments ==
It's all very good... I'm not going to copy shitloads in, because instead, go
check it out on the page, where it has its diagrams and all that. (And, might I
add, I'd like to be able to yank the page in its beauty into my text editor,
because I want my text editor to be like Vim only better.)

http://contentsmagazine.com/articles/no-longer-no-sense-of-an-ending/


"It wouldn’t make a difference if I wrote into a Word document, blog engine or
CMS. *As an artifact, unit of progress, and commercial deliverable it is still*
*the same: an indivisible atom which is either ready for consumption, or not.* Why
we put up with this condition is obvious if you’ve tried the alternative. A few
years ago, I had a grandiose vision of producing a treatise on the web as the
web. It was to be a literal brain-dump: a densely connected labyrinth of ideas
that flowed in and out of one another, an exhaustive map that exhibited the
complex interconnections it required, served up in portions small enough so as
not to overwhelm my audience. It turns out that managing a hairball of tiny
documents with a huge set of links between them is something of a challenge."


http://otal.umd.edu/~mgk/blog/archives/000758.html



Links:
http://www.eastgate.com/patterns/Patterns.html
http://contentsmagazine.com/articles/no-longer-no-sense-of-an-ending/
http://www.dkolb.org/fp002.kolb.pdf
http://www.cs.brown.edu/memex/ACM_HypertextTestbed/papers/45.html
https://github.com/WardCunningham/Smallest-Federated-Wiki


http://grandtextauto.org/2005/08/12/clarifying-ergodic-and-cybertext/

