= Stacks = 

Robin Sloan did a short story, released as a stack, and an explanation of the
stack, released as a stack.
The stack is an obvious instance of pulverized textons. 

A stack could be ergodic, or not ergodic; a stack could be a cybertext, or not. 

A stack is writing, with the need to be compelling every 15 seconds.

[ ]  edit
  No seriously, imagine that. Imagine Robin SLoan's stacks, with the textons
  permuted algorithmically (even if randomly). An opportunity to connect directly
  with a person's data. So what data would they give to us in exchange for ours?
  Remember that part of the data is in the instinct of the actors.>>

  That would mean a good time estimate, and compelling content every 15 seconds.
  Excellent, I can work on that level of detail. 

  module Sloanstacks
  end

== Basic Properties: ==
  * You can click forward through them, but you cannot click back. 
  * Textons are either sequential (like flipping through cards), or juxtaposed
    (flipping through the beats). Juxtaposed seems a little annoying, but it can
    work. 
  * Tokenizing the stack:

  ---
  The obvious way to do it is ** use a special ** token ** to denote when the
  reader ** is hopefully clicking. 
  ** These tokens are for ** juxtaposed textons.
  ***
  Then you've got the token for ** sequential textons.
  ---

== Algorithmic Properties: ==
The reader could select which next card to view.
The reader might be given a card randomly.
The reader might be given a card based on previous history. 
I.e.,
  a probability function
  a history function
  a choice function
  a product of any of the above

The reader could upload content to a card. 
The reader could escape the stack to go on a mission, their place saved
The reader might never see a card again (unless they cheat)

== Kinds of Cards: ==
  * Badges!
  * Video
  * Text
  * Questions/Submissions
  * Texton Attractors
  * Uploaders

